I don't know if setting export default for my components is a bad practice, I'm new to Angular and I want to do it because I want to import the component without the curly braces I want the ng g c home generate this: So I can import it in any component without the curly braces Angular and the use of export default Regarding to the all snippet in Angular documentation, it seems that the use of default is only recommended for the routes files of an Angular application. The Angular ecosystem and development tools are primarily designed to work with the standard export syntax. It seem's to be changing since the last 2 years. According to this part of the Angular documentation and also this #issue in the Angular Github repository, now Angular 15+ support default exports. For exemple, in loadChildren or loadComponent callbacks, you can do : AOT and JIT compiler In this related post, in 2017, the 'export default' seem to have issues with AOT compiler ( ng build --aot ). This was fixed in March 2020. I don't have any issue using export default in my testing so far. Using a custom template in Angular CLI If you want to use export default by default in a component template, i suggest the use of Angular schematics . You just need to create schematic template for a custom component with export default and then call your custom component from your angular CLI. Your schematic template can look like : Like @bergi said, I will bring you "opionated answer" regarding to Angular Good practice. I will avoid Export Default because of maintainability concerns and easy refactoring. But this is purely personal. I just prefer read import { Foo } from "./foo"; . In fact, it's easy to confuse default exports and named ones while importing from the same package. That being said from now on you can use export default in Angular without having issue with AOT compiller. In the doc you can find a case for the use of export default here If you want to use it in the Angular CLI tool, i can suggest you to look over Angular Schematics As of now there is no way to generate components with default exports using angular cli, you have to manually update component after generation to make it default export. If you are coming from React, you are likely to be comfortable with default exports but in angular it is recomended to use named exports as unlike react, angular follows strict structure and using default exports may incurr errors in things like aot compilation etc.