I have access to two AWS environments - one is my own company's sandbox environment, and the other is a GovCloud environment for an agency that I support. My team and I have been having issues in successfully importing Python modules using Lambda layers in the latter environment, but have no issues in the former. I've tried with a variety of runtimes and .zip file structures, but continue to encounter errors (usually an Unable to import module error). I have followed the documentation to create the appropriate .zip file (in my test case, including just pandas) and then created the layer with this file and selected all Python runtimes. I've tried installing/zipping the packages on my local Windows machine and also within a Linux environment using WSL. In my company's sandbox environment, the import pandas lines works just fine, but for some reason the exact same layer in the other environment keeps throwing a module not found error: My .zip file structure is as follows: I've also tried with having the contents directly in just the python directory, in which case I get this error: As a note, there are some older layers that previous team members have created for other modules that currently do work, so it doesn't seem as though its across the board, but at least for the last several weeks none of our new layers have been working. I also tried downloading an existing working layer and creating a new layer using the downloaded .zip and again ran into the same error ( Unable to import module... ). Looking for any pointers on what could be the underlying issue. Curious if there are some IAM/permissions factors in play under the hood, though I myself don't have any permissions to see just about anything in IAM. Appreciate any help! Edit: See my comments below, but part of the issue I was able to resolve due to different versions of Python between my Lambda runtime and the source of the layer. I updated the title of the question to specifically try and figure out why the numpy import (as a dependency of pandas ) is giving the error above.